Here we describe the analyses conducted for our article Rapley et al. "Predictors of survival differ between short and medium term in a pilot translocation of bush stone-curlew".

Abstract:
Selection of individuals for translocation is a key tactic that can reduce mortality, reduce hyperdispersal, and encourage social meshing. However, few studies have related pre-release metrics to post-release performance. Furthermore, success is usually measured at a single point in time, rather than considering temporal variation in success. Survival rates and their drivers may change over time as founders move through post-release behavioural modification phases. Here we used a trial translocation of bush stone-curlew Burhinus grallarius to gather evidence on individual traits that may promote survival. We tested sex, pre-release weight, and three pre-release assay metrics: handling response, latency to reach food, and proportion of time spent alert during a filming period. Latency to reach food weakly predicted survival to 90 -days, but not to a year. Conversely, handling response weakly predicted survival to one year but wasn’t a predictor for survival in the first 90 -days. The different predictors of survival in the short- and medium-term highlights the importance of sampling period, where ‘success’ varies depending on how and when it is measured. The combined effects of sex and weight were the best predictors for persistence, where males had better survival odds than females, and heavier females were more likely to survive. We discuss the relative strength of evidence and make recommendations for future releases. This study contributes to the growing body of knowledge on how to screen for release candidates based on individual behaviour and traits. 
